# 1376-denovo-assembly

This repository contains the full code/processes I used for generation of de novo assemblies using deep long- and short-read sequencing for a heterozygous, diploid organism. I cannot guarantee it will work for every organism or dataset, especially for organisms/strains that have low heterozygosity of their genomes or long (~75-100+ kb) tracts of homozygosity between heterozygous regions, but it worked for a CRISPR-competent strain of _Candida albicans_ SC5314 (a diploid single-celled yeast, and specifically a Chr5AB disomic derivative of AHY940 from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5422035/, designated MAY1376). 

The code will be in a .sh file, but is not intended to be run as the file itself. I highly suggest downloading it and opening it in a software such as Notepad++ for nicer visualization. Please do not hesitate to ask questions, as I know the instructions/comments might be a bit excessive or stream-of-thought at times - I was standardizing my commenting/structure process more thoroughly as time went on, and there are minor changes I would like to make eventually, should I have more time to work on improving the writing of the comments. (I am not a trained bioinformatician or programmer, just a graduate student/researcher who has been trying to learn, so please forgive me for any faux pas in the formatting of my files).

Additionally, as a general rule of thumb, if a section of code DOESN'T start with "source /[HOMEPATH]/miniconda3/bin/activate", that means it's very likely something that needs to be done via the terminal! This is because the jobs (which is how I ran these scripts) need conda activated first.

For more information, please feel free to contact myself or Dr. Matthew Anderson (https://genetics.wisc.edu/staff/anderson-matt/), my Ph.D. advisor during my time at The Ohio State University.

______________
For full discloser, the following was what I did prior to running the scripts:

"For short-read sequencing, DNA was extracted from overnight cultures grown at 30°C (~10^8 cells) using the Zymogen Quick-DNA Fungal/Bacterial Miniprep Kit (Zymogen, CAT# D6005). gDNA concentration was quantified using the Qubit dsDNA Broad Range Assay Kit (Invitrogen, CAT# Q32853). Following quantification, the samples were sent to the Applied Microbiology Services Lab (AMSL) at The Ohio State University for processing. Libraries were constructed via tagmentation and dual index barcoding using a modified protocol for the Illumina (L) Tagmentation Kit (Illumina, CAT# 20040537) to produce average final fragment sizes of approximately 450-500 bp. The libraries were sequenced for 2x150 paired-end reads on an Illumina NextSeq 2000. Reads were demultiplexed and Illumina adaptors were trimmed by AMSL. Read quality was assessed using FastQC (v0.11.7), and low-quality positions were trimmed using Trimmomatic (v0.35 LEADING:20 TRAILING:20 SLIDINGWINDOW:4:20 MINLEN:35), after which the trimmed data were checked again using FastQC. Reads were mapped to the C. albicans reference genome Assembly 21 (A21-s02-m09-r10) – obtained March 2, 2021 from the Candida Genome Database website (http://www.candidagenome.org/download/sequence/C_albicans_SC5314/Assembly21/archive/C_albicans_SC5314_version_A21-s02-m09-r10_chromosomes.fasta.gz) – using Bowtie 2 (v2.2.6-2) with parameters “-3 1” to improve downstream analysis. SAMtools (v0.1.19) was then used to generate .bam files, for read sorting, and sample indexing. Read alignment quality was interrogated via visual scanning using Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV, v2.9.2) for aneuploidy, loss of heterozygosity (LOH), and major genomic rearrangements. Secondary checks for ploidy and heterozygosity were performed using YMAP (http://lovelace.cs.umn.edu/Ymap/) for visualization. The final coverage was found to be ~80X.

For long-read sequencing, an intact cell pellet of MAY1376 was sent to the University of Wisconsin-Madison’s Biotechnology Center (UWBC). UWBC performed high molecular weight DNA extraction on the sample to prepare Oxford Nanopore barcoded libraries, with DNA fragment lengths being on average ~20 kb. Libraries were then sequenced on a PromethION 24 using a FLO-PRO114M (R10.4.1) flow cell and an SQK-NBD114-24 (V14) kit for 12 hours. Prior to data delivery, basecalling was performed by UWBC using Guppy 6.4.6 (high-accuracy model, 400 bps) and reads were demultiplexed. The final coverage was found to be **~400X** (we had initially asked for ~8X coverage)."
______________
